Creating a repo,
it's pretty straightforward.
A lot of people probably have
never actually created a repo,
they've always just cloned from
somewhere and worked on something.
So if you've never done personal projects
you may have never created one or
if you always create it first on
say GitHub or GitLab or Bitbucket,
then you'll probably clone down from it.
Sorry, it's weird phrase to
leave my mouth, BitBucket Cloud.
So the very first step is Git init.
Use Git init, to initialize Git.
It will add a .Git folder
inside the directory.
And that's how you know it's a Git repo.
So first problem,
I want you to go somewhere and
I want you to create your first repo.
You can name it whatever you want,
I named this one myfirstgitrepo.
And by the way, for those that are like,
OK, I already know all the stuff I wanna
move on fast, trust me, we're gonna
go really deep, really quickly.
I just wanted to make sure we're all on
the same page with the exact same repo.
And so I'm gonna go Maketer my first repo,
my first repo,
and I'm gonna go Git, that was Git init.
There we go.
And long as you have everything properly
set up, you should see this error message,
which says, hey, by the way,
you don't have a default branch name,
here's the default branch name.
If you wish to do something with it,
you can set your own config and
it will magically work for
you from here on out.
So everyone should get this error message
if you have the same setup that I do.
So every single repo comes
with this .Git folder.
This is where all
the data structures kept.
Now it's kinda weird because a lot of
people probably think of data structures
as things that run inside of a program,
a tree, a hash map, but
you can also keep them just in files,
right?
You got a question.
>> If you accidentally initialize that Git
repo too high like at a parent folder,
what's the best way to revert this?
>> The best way to revert that,
delete the Git folder, right?
Once the got Git folder has been deleted,
the repo does not exist.
All of Git's history is
inside this .Git folder.
So you delete that,
you don't have a repo anymore.
All right, problem.
Validate you have a new Git repo by
listing out all the files inside the .Git
folder or directory.
Whatever one you wanna use, I've been
in fact in one sentence just earlier.
I said folder in your directory and
I just realized how many people
are they're just shook by the fact
that I'm using those terms.
I just love it.
All right, so if you don't know you can
use fine so if I go find out gifts,
it will list out everything.
And you'll see a whole
bunch of stuff in here.
You'll see a bunch of
informational tracking items, and
then you'll also see a bunch
of sample scripts right here.
I'm not gonna talk about hooks today,
I think hooks are evil.
Don't use hooks that's
my personal opinion.
We're just not gonna cover them,
if you wanna learn about hooks,
go read right here you have a bunch of
sample stuff they will just make your life
miserable personal opinion.
Don't use hooks, okay?
That's what your CI is for, that's your
responsibility to test your own code,
don't be ridiculous.
All right.
A lot of people have really strong
reactions when it comes to hooks,
either they absolutely love them or
they hate them.
I'm on the hating camp.
You may not like this, but
this is what peak empty repo looks like,
just a Git folder with
a bunch of files in it.
So, this was kind of mind blowing to
me the fact that Git is in some sense
stateless, like when you run Git,
it has to go, okay, where am I?
It has to find the .Gitfolder.
It has to look for that stuff and
then it can tell exactly what's happened
inside this directory by
looking in the Git folder.
And so that was kinda like a neat
revelation to me that it is its own entity
like that.